In this video, we're going to practice computing the determinant of a four by four matrix.
So bring down a four by four matrix here that we want to get the determiner. And when I look at this
matrix, I see that the second column is kind of very inviting here
because it has a couple zeros in it. And we know that if we get it a standard
basis vector in a column, then we can reduce the dimension and make our life easier.
So the first thing I'm going to want to do here is try and turn one of those ones into a zero. So what
I might do is I might subtract the first row from the third row,
which we know does not change the determinant right down.
First, second and fourth rose the same.
And now we'll take negative are the first row added to the third row. It's a negative two
and a zero and a negative one negative six.
Now, we can't quite reduce the dimension here because we have our first base factor in our second
spot. That's OK. We can swap the first two columns in
a column swap. We know alters the determined by a minus sign because it changes is from a right hand accordance system
to a Latin accordian system or vise versa. We'll go ahead and
swap those two columns. So, you know, it's a negative
to me. Seconds third spot in a
positive tone in the second spots. And then our
third and fourth columns stay the same.
Right now that we have the first standard basis vector in the first column, we can reduce
the dimension here. So this would be the same
thing. As still haven't negative sign out front, determinate
three by three, matrix 2 4 to. Negative 2, negative
1 6 1 3 5.
Now, when I look at this, I notice that everything in the first row is divisible by two. So you go ahead and
factor that out. We have negative two times that determinate 1
to 1 negative 2 negative 1 negative 6
1 3 5.
At this point, I'll mention that there's lots of different ways to compute the determinate of a three by three matrix. Feel free
to use your favorite one. I'm going to use my favorite one, which is just continue what we've been doing.
Unfortunately, I don't see a whole bunch of zeros anywhere, but I do have a one up in the top
left and I can use it to make zeros below it.
So in particular. Copy down that top row
of one to one. I had two times the top row to the second row. That'll
make a zero here. We'll have a three and a negative four.
And if I subtract the top row from the third row, then I'll give me a zero and then a one
and a four. Now, once again, we got the first big
standard basis vector in the first spot. So we can
reduce the dimension once or. Negative two times that a terminal.
To my teachings.
Again, there's several different ways that we could compute this two by two determinant.
I think what I usually do is simply take the product of the diagonal and subtract off the
product of the anti diagonal. In other words, we'll do three times for we'll subtract off
1 times negative four and negative two
times twelve plus four, negative two times sixteen.
So our determinant of our matrix is negative thirty two.
So again, there's lots of different routes you can take. This is just one particular way that we
could do this.